# dickens-lda
Latent Dirichlet Allocation performed on Charles Dickens' "A Tale of Two Cities"
Results: A text analysis of Charles Dickens’ A Tale of Two Cities generated several interesting findings. Chief among them are the topics generated from Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). Seen in Exhibit 1a, the stemmed corpus generated three topics using Gibbs sampler for LDA. The three topics appear to revolve around three of the primary characters in the story, Jarvis Lorry, Jacques (a code name for revolutionaries used in the story to refer to several characters), and Madame Defarge. Similarly, an examination of word frequency, seen in Exhibit 2a, revealed the top 5 most frequent words to be said, look, one, and hand and lorri.

Processing: Initial inspection of the .txt file finds A Tale of Two Cities to be comprised of 136,562 words. Next, in order to isolate the text of the book in particular, I remove the legal disclaimers from Gutenberg.org from the beginning and end of the file. Once the legal disclaimers are removed, the file is imported using “paste” and “readLines” functions and collapsed to create a single character vector called t2c.coll. The character vector is then transformed using the gsub function, removing hyphens, lowercasing all words, removing stopwords and any special characters. Then, stemmed and unstemmed corpuses are created to see if there will be a substantial loss in interpretability with a stemmed term document matrix versus an unstemmed one.  

Takeaway: The order of operations for processing and cleaning a large text file is extremely important. Even though a cleaning transformation was run, it may have no effect on the text data because it was not completed in the correct order. For instance, applying the removeWords function will only be useful after the tolower function because the stopwords are all lowercase. Similarly, punctuation like apostrophes should be left in until after the stopwords are removed because they too are punctuated (words like won’t, can’t and you’re). 
